Verifying sessions in Go (review) (#727)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/references/go/verifying-sessions.mdx

---
title: Verify a Clerk session in Go
description: Learn how to verify a session with Clerk in your Go application.
---

# Verify a Clerk session in Go

There are two ways to verify a session with Clerk in your Go application:

> - [Using Clerk middleware](#use-clerk-middleware-to-verify-a-session)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Using Clerk middleware](#use-clerk-middleware-to-verify-a-session).
```

missing period

If you want to verify a session in an HTTP context, it is recommended to use Clerk middleware. Clerk middleware guarantees better performance and efficiency by making the minimum necessary requests to the Clerk Backend API.

> - [Manually verifying the session token](#manually-verify-a-session-token)

Reviewer: Ah, okay, got it. So it's intended to look like this, correct?
![image](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/assets/5156915/6503a912-3cbe-44ca-b8bd-7d09b3fe6ef0)

> - [Manually verifying the session token](#manually-verify-a-session-token)

Author: no .-. 
lolll

ok i just updated to look like this, wdyt?
<img width="780" alt="Screenshot 2024-02-23 at 18 00 21" src="https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/assets/98043211/a72e17f1-6165-4bac-9c89-04a5d6af8f16">

- [`WithHeaderAuthorization()`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2/http#WithHeaderAuthorization)
- [`RequireHeaderAuthorization()`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2/http#RequireHeaderAuthorization), which calls `WithHeaderAuthorization()` under the hood, but responds with `HTTP 403 Forbidden` if it fails to detect valid session claims.

Both middleware functions support header based authentication with a bearer token. The token will be parsed, verified, and its claims will be extracted as [`SessionClaims`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2#SessionClaims).

The claims will then be made available in the `http.Request.Context` for the next handler in the chain. Clerk Go SDK provides the [`SessionClaimsFromContext()`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2#SessionClaimsFromContext) helper for accessing the claims from the context.

The following example demonstrates how to use the `WithHeaderAuthorization()` middleware to protect a route. If the user tries accessing the route and their session token is valid, the user's ID will be returned in the response.

<Callout type="info">

> Your Clerk secret key is required. If you are signed in to your Clerk Dashboard, your secret key should become visible by clicking on the eye icon. Otherwise, you can retrieve your Clerk secret key from the Clerk Dashboard on the **[API Keys](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=api-keys)** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Clerk secret key is required. If you are signed in to your Clerk Dashboard, your secret key should become visible by selecting the eye icon. Otherwise, you can retrieve your Clerk secret key from the Clerk Dashboard on the **[API Keys](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=api-keys)** page.
```

</Callout>

<InjectKeys>
```go
import (
  "fmt"
  "net/http"

  "github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2"
  clerkhttp "github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-go/v2/http"
)

func main() {
  clerk.SetKey(`{{secret}}`)

  mux := http.NewServeMux()
  mux.HandleFunc("/", publicRoute)
  protectedHandler := http.HandlerFunc(protectedRoute)
  mux.Handle(
    "/protected",
    clerkhttp.WithHeaderAuthorization()(protectedHandler),
  )

  http.ListenAndServe(":3000", mux)
}

func publicRoute(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
  w.Write([]byte(`{"access": "public"}`))
}

func protectedRoute(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
  claims, ok := clerk.SessionClaimsFromContext(r.Context())
  if !ok {
    w.WriteHeader(http.StatusUnauthorized)
    w.Write([]byte(`{"access": "unauthorized"}`))
    return
  }
  fmt.Fprintf(w, `{"user_id": "%s"}`, claims.Subject)
}
```
</InjectKeys>

## Manually verify a session token

> Verifying a Clerk session manually is useful when you want to verify a session in a non-HTTP context, or if you would like total control over the verification process. With the solution above, Clerk middleware makes the minimum necessary requests to the Clerk Backend API. With this solution, you must be mindful of API rate limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verifying a Clerk session manually is useful when you want to verify a session in a non-HTTP context, or if you would like total control over the verification process. Clerk middleware makes the minimum necessary requests to the Clerk Backend API when you use it to verify sessions. When verifying manually, you must be mindful of API rate limits.
```

Suggested this change because this section may be moved around in the future without the text changing, at which point the "solution above" may no longer be above, which would confuse the reader
